docs(NODE-2329): write upgrade and migration guide (#2890)
mongodb/node-mongodb-native: docs/CHANGES_4.0.0.md

Recently we migrated our BSON library to TypeScript as well, this version of the driver pulls in those changes.

#### Community Types users (@types/mongodb)

If you are a user of the community types (@types/mongodb) there will likely be compilation errors while adopting the types from our codebase.
Unfortunately we could not achieve a one to one match in types due to the details of writing the codebase in Typescript vs definitions for the user layer API along with the breaking changes of this major version. Please let us know if there's anything that is a blocker to upgrading [on JIRA](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/NODE).

### NodeJS Version

We now require node 12.9 or greater for version 4 of the driver.
If that's outside your support matrix at this time, that's okay!
Bug fix support for our 3.x branch will not be ending until summer 2022!

### Cursor changes

> #### AbstractCursor, FindCursor, AggregationCursor, ChangeStreamCursor, ListCollectionsCursor

Reviewer: This heading is confusing to me, what is it intended to convey?

Author: I guess just listing out the affected classes, I'll make it into a list instead

> Our Cursor implementation has been updated to make more clear what is possible before and after execution of an operation. Take this example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our Cursor implementation has been updated to clarify what is possible before and after execution of an operation. Take this example:
```

- `new MongoClient(url, { auth: { username: '', password: '' } })`
- `new MongoClient('mongodb://username:password@myDb.host')`

#### Check Server Identity Inconsistency

Specifying `checkServerIdentity === false` (along with enabling tls) is different from it being leaving it `undefined`.
The 3.x version intercepted `checkServerIdentity: false` and turned it into a no-op function which is the required way to skip checking the server identity by nodejs.
Setting this option to `false` is only for testing anyway as it disables essential verification to TLS.
So it made sense for our library to directly expose the option validation from nodejs.
If you need to test TLS connections without verifying server identity pass in `{ checkServerIdentity: () => {} }`.

#### Kerberos / GSSAPI

`gssapiServiceName` has been removed.
Users should use authMechanismProperties.SERVICE_NAME like so:

- In a URI query param: `?authMechanismProperties=SERVICE_NAME:alternateServiceName`
- Or as an option: `{ authMechanismProperties: { SERVICE_NAME: 'alternateServiceName' } }`

### db.collection no longer accepts a callback

> The only option that required the use of the callback was strict mode and that option can still be used in `db.createCollection`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only option that required the use of the callback was strict mode. Users who wish to ensure operations only execute against existing collections should use `db.listCollections` directly.
```

We removed strict mode from `db.createCollection` also, where it was a no-op.

    await db.createCollection(myNewCollectionName)
}
```

### BulkWriteError renamed to MongoBulkWriteError

In 3.x we exported both the names above, we now only export `MongoBulkWriteError`.
Users testing for `BulkWriteError`s should be sure to import the new class name `MongoBulkWriteError`.

### Db no longer emits events

The Db instance is no longer an EventEmitter, all events your application is concerned with can be listened to directly from the `MongoClient` instance.

### Collection.group() removed

The collection `group()` helper has been deprecated in MongoDB since 3.4 and is now removed from the Driver.
The same functionality can be achieved using the aggregation pipeline's `$group` operator.

### GridStore removed

The deprecated GirdStore API has been removed from the driver.
For more information on GridFS [see the mongodb manual](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/gridfs/).

Below are some snippets that represent equivalent operations:

#### Construction

```javascript
// old way
const gs = new GridStore(db, filename, mode[, options])
// new way
const bucket = new GridFSBucket(client.db('test')[, options])
```

#### File seeking

> Since GridFSBucket uses NodeJS Stream API you can replicate file seek-ing by using the start and end options creating a downloadStream from your GridFSBucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since GridFSBucket uses NodeJS Stream API you can replicate file seek-ing by using the start and end options creating a download stream from your GridFSBucket
```

We know breaking changes are hard but they are sometimes for the best.
Anyway, enjoy the guide, see you at the end!_

## Key Changes

### Typescript

We've migrated the driver to Typescript! Users can now harness the power of type hinting and intellisense in editors that support it to develop their MongoDB applications. Users don't even have to adopt Typescript to get the benefits. Along with the type hinting there's consistent docs formatting that editors should be able to display while developing.
Recently we migrated our BSON library to TypeScript as well, this version of the driver pulls in those changes.

#### Community Types users (@types/mongodb)

If you are a user of the community types (@types/mongodb) there will likely be compilation errors while adopting the types from our codebase.
Unfortunately we could not achieve a one to one match in types due to the details of writing the codebase in Typescript vs definitions for the user layer API along with the breaking changes of this major version. Please let us know if there's anything that is a blocker to upgrading [on JIRA](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/NODE).

> ### NodeJS Version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Node.js Version
```

We now require node 12.9 or greater for version 4 of the driver.
If that's outside your support matrix at this time, that's okay!
Bug fix support for our 3.x branch will not be ending until summer 2022!

### Cursor changes

Affected classes:

- `AbstractCursor`
- `FindCursor`
- `AggregationCursor`
- `ChangeStreamCursor`
  - This is the underlying cursor for `ChangeStream`
- `ListCollectionsCursor`

Our Cursor implementation has been updated to clarify what is possible before and after execution of an operation. Take this example:

```javascript
const cursor = collection.find({ a: 2.3 }).skip(1)
for await (const doc of cursor) {
    console.log(doc);
    fc.limit(1) // bad.
}
```

Prior to the this release there was inconsistency surrounding how the cursor would error if a setting like limit was applied after cursor execution had begun. Now, an error along the lines of: `Cursor is already initialized` is thrown.

#### Stream API

The Cursor no longer extends Readable directly, it must be transformed into a stream by calling cursor.stream(), for example:

```javascript
const cursor = collection.find({});
const stream = cursor.stream()

> stream.on("data", data => console.log(data));

Reviewer 3: it looks like we use single quotes for strings everywhere else, would probably be good to keep it consistent here and in the line below, too

stream.on("end", () => client.close());
```

### MongoClientOptions interface

With type hinting users should find that the options passed to a MongoClient are completely enumerated and easily discoverable.
In 3.x there were options, like `maxPoolSize`, that were only respected when `useUnifiedTopology=true` was enabled, vs `poolSize` when `useUnifiedTopology=false`.
We've de-duped these options and put together some hefty validation to help process all options upfront to give early warnings about incompatible settings in order to help your app get up and running correctly quicker!

#### Unified Topology Only

We internally now only manage a Unified Topology when you connect to your MongoDB.
The [differences are described in detail here](https://mongodb.github.io/node-mongodb-native/3.6/reference/unified-topology/).

Feel free to remove the `useUnifiedTopology` and `useNewUrlParser` options at your leisure, they are no longer used by the driver.

**NOTE:** With the unified topology, in order to connect to replicaSet nodes that have not been initialized you must use the new `directConnection` option.

#### Authentication

> Specifying username and password as options are supported in only these two formats:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Specifying username and password as options is only supported in these two formats:
```

- `new MongoClient(url, { auth: { username: '', password: '' } })`
- `new MongoClient('mongodb://username:password@myDb.host')`

#### Check Server Identity Inconsistency

> Specifying `checkServerIdentity === false` (along with enabling tls) is different from it being leaving it `undefined`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Specifying `checkServerIdentity === false` (along with enabling tls) is different from leaving it `undefined`.
```

The 3.x version intercepted `checkServerIdentity: false` and turned it into a no-op function which is the required way to skip checking the server identity by nodejs.
Setting this option to `false` is only for testing anyway as it disables essential verification to TLS.

> So it made sense for our library to directly expose the option validation from nodejs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So it made sense for our library to directly expose the option validation from Node.js.
```

If you need to test TLS connections without verifying server identity pass in `{ checkServerIdentity: () => {} }`.

#### Kerberos / GSSAPI

`gssapiServiceName` has been removed.
Users should use authMechanismProperties.SERVICE_NAME like so:

- In a URI query param: `?authMechanismProperties=SERVICE_NAME:alternateServiceName`
- Or as an option: `{ authMechanismProperties: { SERVICE_NAME: 'alternateServiceName' } }`

### db.collection no longer accepts a callback

The only option that required the use of the callback was strict mode. Users who wish to ensure operations only execute against existing collections should use `db.listCollections` directly.
The strict option would return an error if the collection does not exist.

> Another way to assert a collections existence is using this snippet below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Another way to assert a collection's existence is using this snippet below:
```

    await db.createCollection(myNewCollectionName)
}
```

### BulkWriteError renamed to MongoBulkWriteError

In 3.x we exported both the names above, we now only export `MongoBulkWriteError`.
Users testing for `BulkWriteError`s should be sure to import the new class name `MongoBulkWriteError`.

### Db no longer emits events

The Db instance is no longer an EventEmitter, all events your application is concerned with can be listened to directly from the `MongoClient` instance.

### Collection.group() removed

The collection `group()` helper has been deprecated in MongoDB since 3.4 and is now removed from the Driver.
The same functionality can be achieved using the aggregation pipeline's `$group` operator.

### GridStore removed

The deprecated GirdStore API has been removed from the driver.
For more information on GridFS [see the mongodb manual](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/gridfs/).

Below are some snippets that represent equivalent operations:

#### Construction

```javascript
// old way
const gs = new GridStore(db, filename, mode[, options])
// new way
const bucket = new GridFSBucket(client.db('test')[, options])
```

#### File seeking

> Since GridFSBucket uses NodeJS Stream API you can replicate file seek-ing by using the start and end options creating a download stream from your GridFSBucket

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since GridFSBucket uses the Node.js Stream API you can replicate file seek-ing by using the start and end options creating a download stream from your GridFSBucket
```

```javascript
bucket.openDownloadStreamByName(filename, { start: 23, end: 52 })
```

#### File Upload & File Download

``` javascript
await client.connect();
const filename = 'test.txt' // whatever local file name you want
const db = client.db()
const bucket = new GridFSBucket(db)

fs.createReadStream(filename)
    .pipe(bucket.openUploadStream(filename))
    .on('error', console.error)
    .on('finish', () => {
    console.log('done writing to db!')

>     bucket.find().toArray().then((files) => {

Reviewer 2: The indentation here is a bit odd?

Author: Ran prettier, so all code blocks should be pretty now 😄

## Removed deprecations

- `Collection.prototype.find / findOne options:`
  - `fields` - use `projection` instead
- `Collection.prototype.save` - use `insertOne` instead
- `Collection.prototype.dropAllIndexes`
- `Collection.prototype.ensureIndex`
- `Collection.prototype.findAndModify` - use `findOneAndUpdate`/`findOneAndReplace`
- `Collection.prototype.findAndRemove` - use `findOneAndDelete` instead
- `Collection.prototype.parallelCollectionScan`
- `MongoError.create`
- `Topology.destroy`
- `Cursor.prototype.each` - `forEach`
- `Db.prototype.eval`
- `Db.prototype.ensureIndex`
- `Db.prototype.profilingInfo`
- `MongoClient.prototype.logout`
- `MongoClient.prototype.addUser: Creating a user without roles`
- `MongoClient.prototype.connect`
- `Remove MongoClient.isConnected` - calling connect is a no-op if already connected
- `Remove MongoClient.logOut`
- `require('mongodb').instrument`
  - Use command monitoring: `client.on('commandStarted', (ev) => {})`
- Top-Level export no longer a function: `typeof require('mongodb') !== 'function'`
  - Must construct a MongoClient and call `.connect()` on it.

> - No more `Symbol` export, now `BSONSymbol` which is a deprecated BSON type

Author: Wrote some text, looks good?

> - No more `Symbol` export, now `BSONSymbol` which is a deprecated BSON type

Reviewer 3: maybe change the order and make one sentence?
"Existing bson symbols in your database will be deserialized to a BSONSymbol instance; however, users should use plain strings instead of BSONSymbol"

> - No more `Symbol` export, now `BSONSymbol` which is a deprecated BSON type

Author: SGTM, done!

Specifying username and password as options is only supported in these two formats:

- `new MongoClient(url, { auth: { username: '', password: '' } })`
- `new MongoClient('mongodb://username:password@myDb.host')`

#### Check Server Identity Inconsistency

Specifying `checkServerIdentity === false` (along with enabling tls) is different from leaving it `undefined`.
The 3.x version intercepted `checkServerIdentity: false` and turned it into a no-op function which is the required way to skip checking the server identity by nodejs.
Setting this option to `false` is only for testing anyway as it disables essential verification to TLS.
So it made sense for our library to directly expose the option validation from Node.js.
If you need to test TLS connections without verifying server identity pass in `{ checkServerIdentity: () => {} }`.

#### Kerberos / GSSAPI

`gssapiServiceName` has been removed.
Users should use authMechanismProperties.SERVICE_NAME like so:

- In a URI query param: `?authMechanismProperties=SERVICE_NAME:alternateServiceName`
- Or as an option: `{ authMechanismProperties: { SERVICE_NAME: 'alternateServiceName' } }`

### db.collection no longer accepts a callback

> The only option that required the use of the callback was strict mode. Users who wish to ensure operations only execute against existing collections should use `db.listCollections` directly.
> The strict option would return an error if the collection does not exist.
> 
> Another way to assert a collection's existence is using this snippet below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only option that required the use of the callback was strict mode. 
The strict option would return an error if the collection does not exist.
Users who wish to ensure operations only execute against existing collections should use `db.listCollections` directly.

For example:
```
Some re-ordering to make things clearer.

```javascript
const collections = (await db.listCollections({}, { nameOnly: true }).toArray()).map(
  ({ name }) => name
); // map to get string[]
if (!collections.includes(myNewCollectionName)) {

>   await db.createCollection(myNewCollectionName);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  throw new Error(`${myCollectionName} doesn't exist`);
```
This change makes the snippet closer to the old behavior.

### Node.js Version

We now require node 12.9 or greater for version 4 of the driver.
If that's outside your support matrix at this time, that's okay!
Bug fix support for our 3.x branch will not be ending until summer 2022!

### Cursor changes

Affected classes:

- `AbstractCursor`
- `FindCursor`
- `AggregationCursor`
- `ChangeStreamCursor`
  - This is the underlying cursor for `ChangeStream`
- `ListCollectionsCursor`

Our Cursor implementation has been updated to clarify what is possible before and after execution of an operation. Take this example:

```javascript
const cursor = collection.find({ a: 2.3 }).skip(1);
for await (const doc of cursor) {
  console.log(doc);
  fc.limit(1); // bad.
}
```

Prior to the this release there was inconsistency surrounding how the cursor would error if a setting like limit was applied after cursor execution had begun. Now, an error along the lines of: `Cursor is already initialized` is thrown.

> 

Author: Yes! added, thoughts?

> 

Reviewer: LGTM, had a few suggestions

# Changes in 4.x (and how to migrate!)

_Hello dear reader, **thank you** for adopting version 4.x of the MongoDB Node.js driver, from the bottom of our developer hearts we thank you so much for taking the time to upgrade to our latest and greatest offering of a stunning database experience.
We hope you enjoy your upgrade experience and this guide gives you all the answers you are searching for.

> If anything, and we mean anything, hinders you upgrade experience please let us know via [JIRA](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/NODE).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If anything, and we mean anything, hinders your upgrade experience please let us know via [JIRA](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/NODE).
```

### Node.js Version

We now require node 12.9 or greater for version 4 of the driver.
If that's outside your support matrix at this time, that's okay!
Bug fix support for our 3.x branch will not be ending until summer 2022, which has support going back as far as Node.js v4!

### Cursor changes

Affected classes:

- `AbstractCursor`
- `FindCursor`
- `AggregationCursor`
- `ChangeStreamCursor`
  - This is the underlying cursor for `ChangeStream`
- `ListCollectionsCursor`

Our Cursor implementation has been updated to clarify what is possible before and after execution of an operation. Take this example:

```javascript
const cursor = collection.find({ a: 2.3 }).skip(1);
for await (const doc of cursor) {
  console.log(doc);
  fc.limit(1); // bad.
}
```

Prior to the this release there was inconsistency surrounding how the cursor would error if a setting like limit was applied after cursor execution had begun.
Now, an error along the lines of: `Cursor is already initialized` is thrown.

#### ChangeStream must be used as an iterator or an event emitter

> You cannot use ChangeStream as iterator after using as an EventEmitter nor visa versa.
> Previously the driver would permit this kind of usage but with undefined results of which type of usage would actually receive the change documents.
> It's unlikely this kind of usage was useful but to be sure we can now warn users about the risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot use ChangeStream as an iterator after using as an EventEmitter nor visa versa.
Previously the driver would permit this kind of usage but it could lead to unpredictable behavior and obscure errors.
It's unlikely this kind of usage was useful but to be sure we now prevent it by throwing a clear error.
```

```javascript
const changeStream = db.watch();
changeStream.on('change', doc => console.log(doc));
await changeStream.next(); // throws: Cannot use ChangeStream as iterator after using as an EventEmitter
```

Or the reverse:

```javascript
const changeStream = db.watch();
await changeStream.next();
changeStream.on('change', doc => console.log(doc)); // throws: Cannot use ChangeStream as an EventEmitter after using as an iterator
```

#### Stream API

The Cursor no longer extends Readable directly, it must be transformed into a stream by calling cursor.stream(), for example:

```javascript
const cursor = collection.find({});
const stream = cursor.stream();
stream.on('data', data => console.log(data));
stream.on('end', () => client.close());
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

`Cursor.transformStream()` has been removed. `Cursor.stream()` accepts a transform function, so that API was redundant.
```

**NOTE:** With the unified topology, in order to connect to replicaSet nodes that have not been initialized you must use the new `directConnection` option.

#### Authentication

Specifying username and password as options is only supported in these two formats:

- `new MongoClient(url, { auth: { username: '', password: '' } })`
- `new MongoClient('mongodb://username:password@myDb.host')`

#### Check Server Identity Inconsistency

Specifying `checkServerIdentity === false` (along with enabling tls) is different from leaving it `undefined`.
The 3.x version intercepted `checkServerIdentity: false` and turned it into a no-op function which is the required way to skip checking the server identity by nodejs.
Setting this option to `false` is only for testing anyway as it disables essential verification to TLS.
So it made sense for our library to directly expose the option validation from Node.js.
If you need to test TLS connections without verifying server identity pass in `{ checkServerIdentity: () => {} }`.

#### Kerberos / GSSAPI

`gssapiServiceName` has been removed.

> Users should use authMechanismProperties.SERVICE_NAME like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users should use `authMechanismProperties.SERVICE_NAME` like so:
```

- Or as an option: `{ authMechanismProperties: { SERVICE_NAME: 'alternateServiceName' } }`

### db.collection no longer accepts a callback

The only option that required the use of the callback was strict mode.
The strict option would return an error if the collection does not exist.
Users who wish to ensure operations only execute against existing collections should use `db.listCollections` directly.

For example:

```javascript
const collections = (await db.listCollections({}, { nameOnly: true }).toArray()).map(
  ({ name }) => name
); // map to get string[]
if (!collections.includes(myNewCollectionName)) {
  throw new Error(`${myNewCollectionName} doesn't exist`);
}
```

### BulkWriteError renamed to MongoBulkWriteError

In 3.x we exported both the names above, we now only export `MongoBulkWriteError`.
Users testing for `BulkWriteError`s should be sure to import the new class name `MongoBulkWriteError`.

### Db no longer emits events

The Db instance is no longer an EventEmitter, all events your application is concerned with can be listened to directly from the `MongoClient` instance.

### Collection.group() removed

> The collection `group()` helper has been deprecated in MongoDB since 3.4 and is now removed from the Driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The collection `group()` helper has been deprecated in MongoDB since 3.4 and is now removed from the driver.
```

The same functionality can be achieved using the aggregation pipeline's `$group` operator.

### GridStore removed

> The deprecated GirdStore API has been removed from the driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deprecated GridStore API has been removed from the driver.
```

const fileMetaDataList: GridFSFile[] = bucket.find({}).toArray();
```

#### Hashing an upload

The automatic MD5 hashing has been removed from the upload family of functions.
This makes the default Grid FS behavior compliant with systems that do not permit usage of MD5 hashing.
The `disableMD5` option is no longer used and has no effect.

> If you still want to add an MD5 hash to your file upload here's a simple example that can be used with [any hashing algorithm](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v14.x/docs/api/crypto.html#crypto_crypto_createhash_algorithm_options) provided by Node.js:

Reviewer 3: should have a `,` after "file upload"
